Title: On FIle Sharing, DRM, and customer choice
Date: 2010-02-27 13:04
Author: admin
Category: Ideas and Rants
Tags: drm, file sharing, intellectual property, IP, music, p2p, peer to peer, shopping
Slug: on-file-sharing-drm-and-customer-choice

There's been a *lot* of buzz over the past few years about DRM, file
sharing, "intellectual property theft", etc. A lot of that has been the
two extreme sides - the media industry and their "have it our way"
attitude, and the extremists who feel that everything digital should be
freely shareable by everyone. I don't fall into either of those
categories, and I don't think the majority of people do either.

First, let's look at a bit of history. In my early childhood (1990's),
cassettes were giving way to CDs, and VHS tapes were the norm for
videos. You could go to any corner store and buy a blank cassette tape
or VHS tape, and it was widely known that people recorded TV shows or
copied audio or video tapes. To cope with this, a portion of the
purchase price of every blank tape was distributed among media companies
and artists, to compensate them for the copies being made. It seemed
that everyone was happy about this - nobody was trying to ban the sale
of blank tapes, and my neighborhood video rental store never made me
sign a contract promising not to copy a rented tape. There seemed to be
a balance between the need for profit and what consumers wanted to do.

That all changed when the world went digital - first audio CDs, then
movies on DVD. It requires mention that almost all of the problems faced
by the media industry (namely "piracy" and file sharing) were brought by
the industry itself. I vividly remember, over a period of a mere two
years or so, the transition from VHS to DVD. I remember going to the
video rental store (we were late adopters, nobody in my family had a
standalone DVD player) and being told that new releases were no longer
coming out on VHS. We *had* to buy a DVD player. This was a format that
was pushed on consumers by the movie industry, and was pushed hard and
fast. While everyone talked of the quality benefits, it was obvious that
distributors were in love with the format's cheap and quick
reproduction. I simply do not believe that the movie industry was
unaware (especially given the proliferation of DVD drives in computers)
that this cheap reproduction was as easily available to consumers as it
was to them. If they were unaware, we must ask how their
million-dollar-a-year technical teams never mentioned it. You can't have
your cake and eat it too. The movie industry *chose* to convert to a
format that's easily copied. The movie industry *chose* to convert to a
format that could be easily read - and copied - on any home computer.
They should be forced to accept that choice, and the effect that anyone
with a computer can duplicate or share their products. If they didn't
want people to do this, they should have stuck with VHS, or gone to a
higher-quality tape format.

But, I digress. The main point that I want to make is about consumer
choice, and how that effects purchasing (and sharing) habits.

In my parent's generation, and those before it, customers voiced their
choice through making a purchase or not making a purchase. If they
didn't like a car salesman's attitude, they'd buy the car from someone
else. If they didn't like the terms of a warranty, they'd buy their
washing machine from Sears instead of the local store. If they didn't
like their phone company, they'd switch.

My generation, in the digital age, was faced with a different choice -
buy or share. The recording and movie industries more or less made this
choice for us. They wouldn't let us buy how we wanted to, so we made the
other choice.

This choice required a bit of a tangent to explain. The industry wants
us to think of file sharing as stealing. When sharing digital files,
they want us to think of the fact that the file is duplicated (i.e. my
friend now has it, but I still have it too). This is simply a
side-effect of how digital systems work. Whether right or wrong, whether
antiquated or not, in most human minds the concept of stealing is
inextricably linked to physical property. Walking into a library and
walking out with a book that you didn't check out is clearly stealing.
However, most people wouldn't think the same thing of photocopying some
pages from the book. Most people wouldn't think of photocopying a
newspaper article and mailing it to their friend as stealing. How many
people, in the day of audio cassettes, thought of it as "stealing" when
they copied a tape for their friend? I'd guess that, for the vast
majority of people, file sharing is much more closely associated with
these actions than walking out of a record store with a CD.

My personal theory is that a large amount of file sharing (of
copyrighted material) would stop if the movie industry would let people
buy the way they want.

There was a time, a few years ago, when I got almost all of my music
through peer-to-peer file sharing (though, unlike many, I didn't allow
uploads). I never thought much of it - I shared lots of things with my
friends, why not music? Then RIAA started their PR and lawsuit
campaigns. They started suing college kids for sharing music - and suing
them for a *lot* more than even the cost of the CDs they'd "stolen" (and
that's ignoring the fact that they just "stole" the information on the
CDs, so the actual cost should have been lower, less the physical media
and distribution costs). So, I heard what the recording industry was
telling me: we don't like you. I stopped downloading music, and I also
stopped buying it. For about 3 1/2 years, I listened to what I already
had on CD, or the radio, but nothing new.

Then there was iTunes. You could buy whatever music you wanted, usually
for less than $1. But you had to use their software, which didn't run on
Linux. And if you wanted to listen to it away from your computer, you
had to use an iPod. And you couldn't burn it to CD, so it wouldn't work
with the older stereo in my car.

Finally, the industry woke up. Amazon came out with their MP3 store,
where I could buy individual songs or complete albums, as standard
(non-DRMed) MP3 files, that I could listen to on my cell phone, any of
my computers, or burn to CD and play in my car. And I've been hooked
ever since - I get all of my music for a low price, in a standard
unrestricted format. I can burn it to CD for my car, put it on my
computers at home and at work, put it on my laptop, put it on my phone.
Thanks to 1-click ordering and instant downloads, I probably spend more
on music now than I did when I had to go to a store to buy CDs. And why?
Because I have choice. Because, finally, they'll sell music to me the
way I want it - and I buy it.

I don't know of any source of unbiased statistics, but I'd venture a
guess that since various stores have begun selling DRM-free music
online, the volume of peer-to-peer sharing of copyrighted music files
has gone down.

But it seems that the movie industry hasn't woken up to this, the MPAA
hasn't taken a lesson from RIAA. While options are starting to appear -
NetFlix streaming and others - they still haven't made the realization
that customers will continue to choose "other" until offered the choice
they want. I still can't buy and download movies on Linux, and since I
use [MythTV](http://www.mythtv.org) for my home theater, it's no use to
get a NetFlix box. Until offered what they want - a download of an
unencumbered, DRM-free movie file, or full DVD image, people will keep
sharing movies, and will keep renting them and ripping full-resolution
copies.

Finally, it's worth mention that the secret Anti-Counterfitting Trade
Agreement
([ACTA](http://www.boingboing.net/2010/02/21/acta-internet-enforc.html))
is obviously tilted in the favor of content producers, and has a number
of [chilling](http://www.michaelgeist.ca/content/view/4808/125/)
provisions for the Internet. Most importantly, it seeks to reverse
previous law and hold ISPs liable for infringement by their customers.
Firstly, and I say this with all my heart, this is wrong. *Until
publishers start successfully suing Xerox for every copy of a page of a
book ever made, don't try and hold ISPs responsible for what their
customers do.* But more importantly, this is braindead - we should know
by now that copyright holders can't win the cat-and-mouse game. We saw
it with p2p and random ports, etc. Trying to detect transmission of
infringing material is impossible. Once a new method is invented, it
will be bypassed. No matter how many millions the media industry spends
on trying to detect violations, there's simply more people working on
the other side, and they're probably smarter and better motivated as
well. If the media industry pushes for ISPs to use deep packet
inspection (DPI) technology, the users will just turn to PKI and
encryption to hide their data. If ISPs just look at traffic patterns,
the users will accept slower download times and shape their traffic to
look like web browsing.

If the media industry really wants to stop file sharing of their content
(instead of just benefiting from lawsuits) the solution is simple - let
consumers buy it the way they want.
