Title: 700MHz - Salvation or more of the same?
Date: 2008-01-28 12:12
Author: admin
Category: Ideas and Rants
Slug: 700mhz-salvation-or-more-of-the-same

One of the biggest pieces of news in the tech world today is the FCC's
auction of the 700MHZ spectrum. I won't go into background - you can get
that from the wonderful TechRepublic article I just read, ["Sanity
Check: The 700 MHz auction will tip the wireless balance, but in which
direction?"][]. The author makes some very good points. The bottom line
is that 700MHz has the capability to flat-out revolutionize mobile
communications in the US. Not only does it hold the possibility for a
truly open network, where devices and applications are carrier-neutral,
but it had bandwidth and geographical coverage possibilities that are
revolutionary here in the US. With the right driving force, 700 MHz
could begin replacing cellular service altogether, with people simply
buying mobile bandwidth and handsets that are natively VoIP-capable.

The 700 MHz spectrum has endless possibilities. It has the possibility
of revolutionizing mobile communications in the US and, most
importantly, letting us catch up with the rest of the world.

On the topic of broadband, I also read another interesting article from
ComputerWorld - "[Keeping a lid on broadband][]". Thanks to my
involvement with [Sun][] as a Campus Ambassador for Rutgers, I've been
in contact with other CA's across the world, not to mention many people
involved in the [OpenSolaris][] project. Here in New Jersey, I have
about 5Mb broadband to my home and apartment (5 Mb down / 2 Mb up).
Download rates rarely peak over 700 Kb. I was flat-out amazed, when
speaking with CAs from Japan, to learn that they have connections well
over 50Mb, and even 100Mb (!!!) to their homes, and they pay LESS than I
do!

While the broadband revolution has swept into urban and suburban
American homes, for the most part consumers are ignorant of the state of
broadband outside of the US. People remember 56k, and know that what
they have now is a lot better. How did the American public allow the
telephone/cable comapanies to force us into a position where we pay more
than citizens of almost any other developed nation for service that is
orders of magnitude slower, and markedly less reliable, than anyone
else?

I won't touch on the topic of [Net Neutrality][] - for me, one of the
most important current issues - aside from my anger at the thought that
one day, this blog (and the rest of my web presence) may disappear
simply because I don't want to pay money to an unknown third party. But
I must raise the question, "what has happened to the rights of
communications customers in America, and how have we let our rights be
ignored for so long?"

PS - If you're interested, RCR Wireless has [ongoing coverage of the 700
MHz auction][].

  ["Sanity Check: The 700 MHz auction will tip the wireless balance, but
  in which direction?"]: http://blogs.techrepublic.com.com/hiner/?p=592
  [Keeping a lid on broadband]: http://www.computerworld.com/action/article.do?command=viewArticleBasic&articleId=310785&source=rss_news50
  [Sun]: http://www.sun.com/
  [OpenSolaris]: http://opensolaris.org/os/
  [Net Neutrality]: http://www.savetheinternet.com/
  [ongoing coverage of the 700 MHz auction]: http://www.rcrnews.com/apps/pbcs.dll/section?category=700MHzmain
