Title: eeePC, Solaris, other updates
Date: 2008-01-27 02:18
Author: admin
Category: Hardware
Slug: eeepc-solaris-other-updates

I'm trying to get around to updating my blog on a regular basis. I have
a lot of links that I wanted to mention, but I might just post a list of
them with short descriptions.

I've finished most of my HOWTO on [installing OpenSuSE on an external
SDHC card on the
eeePC](http://www.jasonantman.com/wiki/index.php/OpenSuSE_10.3_on_eeePC_External_SDHC).
It's not 100% complete yet - I still haven't gotten ACPI working, so I
don't have 100% accurate battery-level readings. But if you get an SD
card larger than 4GB, or don't fill up your root partition to 99% like I
did, you shouldn't have a problem installing the kernel headers and GCC
and building the kernel module from source.

I also added a page to my wiki on [monitoring Solaris hardware through
Nagios](http://www.jasonantman.com/wiki/index.php/Solaris_Nagios_Checks).

As always, I have a lot of projects that I'm working on. I also am going
to be doing a lot of work for [Sun](http://www.sun.com/) this semester
as Campus Ambassador, including a survey of classes and computer labs to
determine what Sun software is in use (you'd be amazed how many
[Java](http://www.java.com/en/) classes don't even mention that
[NetBeans](http://www.netbeans.org/) exists!) I'll also be giving some
technical demos this semester, which I'm really looking forward to.

Most importantly, though, I'm starting classes again. This semester, I
have five on tap - "War, Peace and Military in US" for my history minor,
and four classes for my
[ITI](http://www.scils.rutgers.edu/information-technology-and-informatics-major/program-information.html)
major: [Social
Informatics](http://www.scils.rutgers.edu/component/option,com_courses/task,view/sch,04/cur,547/num,200/Itemid,54/),
[Management of Technological
Organizations](http://www.scils.rutgers.edu/component/option,com_courses/task,view/sch,04/cur,547/num,210/Itemid,54/),
[Network and Internet
Technology](http://www.scils.rutgers.edu/component/option,com_courses/task,view/sch,04/cur,547/num,331/Itemid,54/)
with [Bruce Rights](http://rci.rutgers.edu/~brights/), a SysAdmin here
at Rutgers, and
[Web](http://www.scils.rutgers.edu/component/option,com_courses/task,view/sch,04/cur,547/num,320/Itemid,54/)
[Design](http://www.stevegarwood.com/webdesign/webditi/index.htm) with
[Steve Garwood](http://www.stevegarwood.com/). While I'm really psyched
about classes - specifically the latter two, which really appeal to
someone technical like me (and also the MTO class, as I know I could use
some experience with "management" beyond
[Dilbert](http://www.unitedmedia.com/comics/dilbert/) and my sarcastic
view of workplace dynamics), this brings me to a quite painful
realization. While my two programming classes at the [Rutgers CS
Department](http://www.cs.rutgers.edu/) met in Linux labs, the usual lab
for classes at [SCILS](http://www.scils.rutgers.edu/) is a Windows lab.

This isn't just a problem because of moral reasons, but more because of
practical ones - I know Linux. I like it.
*I'm used to Linux.* I do tens of
hours of development and admin work every week (maybe hundreds if I'm
being bad, or in a prolific period), and I'm most productive in the
environment I'm used to. I remember when I took my Java classes, trying
to explain to the TA's that I wasn't cheating, but I had to bring a
CD-ROM to the on-computer programming exam -
**"there's no way you can make me
program without my .emacs!"**

I've considered that I could just bring my eeePC to class and do
everything on that over wireless. I guess that could work for most of
the class, though I can't say how my professors will react to that. In
preparation for an averse reaction, I've looked into how to deal with
using Windows in a way that's usable for me. After doing a little
research, I found [PortableApps.com](http://portableapps.com/) which
provides versions of [Firefox](http://www.mozilla.com/en-US/firefox/),
[Thunderbird](http://www.mozilla.com/en-US/thunderbird/),
[OpenOffice](http://www.openoffice.org/),
[Pidgin](http://www.pidgin.im/), and other apps (even including
[WinSCP](http://winscp.net/eng/index.php), a Windows SCP/SFTP client) as
Windows executables that will run entirely from a USB flash drive. Most
importantly, I even found [instructions](http://pigpog.com/node/2875)
(and also
[here](http://theblackdragon.wordpress.com/2006/05/12/portable-emacs/))
to run the Windows version of [GNU
Emacs](http://www.gnu.org/software/emacs/) from a flash drive. Granted,
I always preferred the CLI version of Emacs over the graphical one, but
I guess it's a small price to pay. So, once I can find a working USB
flash drive (or an SD card to use with an adapter), I'll setup what I
need to be able to work.

One side note - on the first day of my Management of Technological
Organizations class (painfully meeting 9:50-12:50 Friday mornings) the
professor announced that we'll be using Microsoft Excel, Access,
Project, etc. After class I spoke with the lecturer, [Cathy
Smith](http://www.scils.rutgers.edu/directory/rutsmith/index.html), and
explained the situation (that I can't use those) and asked whether other
software that did the same thing would be acceptable. Amazingly, not
only did she tell me that's ok, but she also said that she's a big fan
of OpenOffice, and went so far as to say that in place of Access, she'd
be happy to accept SQL files. Maybe it's because she's a doctoral
candidate and not a Ph. D. full professor, but I was very happy to find
such enlightenment at Rutgers (for the first time).

On one side note - one of the classes that I had thought of registering
for distributed the syllabus as a .docx MS Office XML file. I was
dumbfounded. I know that few professors take the time to think that some
students may be using Linux or Unix, but do they really think that
everyone's already upgraded to Word 2007? I know most professors - even
in an IT program - probably don't know about the [flaws with
OOXML](http://www.noooxml.org/start) or the current issues surrounding
it, but I thought that the old .doc was pretty well established as the
default document format in the Windows world. More importantly... do
these people know nothing about standards and best practices and
cross-platform usability? If I were distributing a static document, PDF
is the first thing that would pop into my mind...

On a side note, a few links for the day:  
[Photos of great data center cabling, almost
art](http://royal.pingdom.com/?p=240).  
[Designing PDF forms with
Scribus](http://wiki.scribus.net/index.php/Your_first_PDF_form_with_Scribus).  
A wonderful Craigslist ad: [Help me keep
the shell people
alive.](http://www.craigslist.org/about/best/nyc/485967082.html)
