Title: Piracy and options
Date: 2008-01-25 13:44
Author: admin
Category: Miscellaneous
Slug: piracy-and-options

Well, the semester is starting to heat up, and I have a bunch of
personal stuff I haven't posted yet. But I'll get to it this weekend.

In the mean time, I feel the need to comment on an article I read
online, in Conde Nast Portfolio. It's a [lengthy piece about
"Ethan"](http://www.portfolio.com/news-markets/national-news/portfolio/2008/01/14/Media-Defenders-Profile#page1),
the malicious user (I take great offense to the article using the term
"hacker" in the media-popularized sense) who broke into MediaDefender's
network and publicly released internal emails and even phone calls (I
guess there's a downside to VoIP).

First, let me say that while I utterly hate what MediaDefender does, I
don't view Ethan's highly illegal actions as being any different from
physically picking the lock on their office door and photocopying stuff
from file cabinets. It's theft of information. It's burglary. No matter
what the motive, it's illegal. And even worse, this wasn't a
socially-minded attack on one specific "evil" company, but some script
kiddie randomly compromising corporate networks. He happened to find
something interesting, of social value, and let the rest of the world
know about it. He deserves to rot in jail.

That being said, I have two main comments on the article. First, one of
the entertainment industry execs flat-out says that P2P file sharing,
and BitTorrent specifically, have no positive qualities. Obviously, he's
not a Linux user. But the very idea that there are companies out there
trying to unilaterally crush the medium (BitTorrent) which lets me
download an [OpenSuSE](http://www.opensuse.org) image in record time is
disturbing. But I guess nobody takes the time to tell these people that
there's lots of software on BitTorrent and, believe it or not, much
contrary to the Microsoft and entertainment industry view, there are
actually people out there who produce software and \*want\* people to be
able to get it for free.

Secondly, and most importantly, is the flat-out ignorance of the
entertainment industry. Traditionally, it's an industry that's been full
of what I call BS; focus groups, surveys, and customer feedback. Did any
one of these guys take the time to have a focus group agency sit down
with a hundred \*anonymous\* P2P users, and ask them why they use the
technology? Obviously, either they haven't, or they don't want to listen
to the answers.

I can only speak for myself and a few friends who I've discussed this
with, but for us, it's not about getting something \*free\*. It's about
getting it how we want it - which most importantly means NOW. If I want
to watch a movie, I really don't want to drive to a video rental store.
I have a 5Mb internet connection, so I want to use that. I want to have
the movie \*here\*, now. Or not here. Maybe on my laptop, or on my Nokia
tablet. Or on my cell phone. Would I pay $5 for that? Sure. And there's
no reason why that's not a realistic price. If I can buy a DVD, in a
nice printed box, in shrink wrap, that had to be shipped to my local
Best Buy, for $10 or $15, then surely it would be reasonable to buy the
\*content\* of that DVD for $5. The same goes with songs. I can't count
how many times I've looked at a CD, realized that I only want to hear
one song on it, and not purchased it.

Also, perhaps more important, is the idea of options. People are used to
being able to use what they buy however they buy it. I've heard many
times that the recording industry tries to push the FALSE notion that
simply ripping an MP3 from a CD - for your own use, or for backup
purposes - is illegal. More to the point, I use Linux. I can't buy music
from iTunes, or any other source that includes
[DRM](http://defectivebydesign.org/). By including DRM, I'm being told
that whoever sells that music doesn't want my business. It's that
simple. But this isn't an issue that's just limited to Linux users. What
if you own (gasp) MP3 player that's not an iPod, and just shows up on
your computer as a USB mass storage device? What if your car stereo
plays MP3 CDs? DRM is designed to tell these people that their money
isn't wanted.

If I could pay $5, or even a bit more, for a movie or TV episode that I
could download, copy to my laptop or cell phone (I have a Treo 700p) or
tablet computer - or whatever else - I would. In an instant. It becomes
the retail industry's most powerful sales too - an impulse buy; instant
gratification. If I could pay $1 or $3 for a single song, of my
choosing, and play it on my Sansa MP3 player, on my laptop, on my
desktop at work, and on an MP3 CD in my car (truck), I would in an
instant (one viewer at one time = fair use). When will the entertainment
industry wake up and realize that a new distribution medium - the
Internet - will \*help\* them... if they realize what people want, and
provide it?
