Title: Sun and MySQL
Date: 2008-01-20 02:00
Author: admin
Category: Ideas and Rants
Tags: mysql, sun
Slug: sun-and-mysql

I've got a lot to update about in the next few days. I'm back in my
apartment for the new semester of school, I've got a lot of
infrastructure work to do here (most importantly getting net-to-net VPN
with [DynDNS](http://www.dyndns.org) at both ends working from here to
home, even if it means bypassing [IPcop](http://www.ipcop.org/)
totally), and I also did some freelance administration over winter
break, including some work with SCO OpenServer and some work with DF
generation - I also set up my own PDF form filling system, which I'll be
posting in [CVS](http://cvs.jasonantman.com) once it's done. Most
importantly, the new mailserver has been up and running for 22 days
without any problems. And, by far the most exciting, I'm typing this up
on my beautiful new [Asus eeePC
4G](http://eeepc.asus.com/us/product.htm) (which I upgraded to 1 GB RAM)
running [OpenSuSE](http://www.opensuse.org) 10.3 from a 4 GB SDHC card -
A HOWTO will be coming soon. I'm also going to be doing some work with
sitemaps on this site - specifically Google sitemaps - and building one
map for the blog, Mediawiki, and static content. I'm also testing
[Google Analytics](http://www.google.com/analytics/) on my
[wiki](http://www.jasonantman.com) to augment
[Webalizer](http://www.mrunix.net/webalizer/). I'll be updating the blog
in the next few days with a lot of content.

I'm also catching up on all of my RSS feeds in [Google
Reader](http://www.google.com/reader/) (yes, I use Google everything -
but not mail or Docs) which I mostly ignored over break. I started
yesterday with 780 items, and I'm down to 500. I'm also going to attempt
to start quick little "links of the day" entries, as it seems that it's
taking me too much time to fully blog on the interesting news of the
day, and my[list of things to blog
on](http://del.icio.us/jantman/1-toblog) is getting way too long. (Just
as a side note, the only reason I really use
[del.icio.us](http://del.icio.us) is so I can have the [firefox
plugin](http://del.icio.us/help/firefox/extensionnew) sync my bookmarks
between the many machines I use.)

Anyway, on to the hottest bit of news today - [Sun
Microsystems](http://www.sun.com) has acqured [MySQL
AB](http://www.mysql.com/). Now, I must say that I'm an intern at Sun -
the Campus Ambassador to Rutgers University. Essentially, my job is
talking to students, professors, and staff and telling them that "Yes,
Sun does open source, and they have a few things that should interest
you" - in addition to giving tech demos, handing out CDs, and raffling
off t-shirts - and even a [SunSPOT](http://www.sunspotworld.com/). I
must emphasize that what I say here is my own opinion and nothing more.
Heck, I'm an intern, it's not like I know any more about what's going on
at Sun than anyone else who reads Digg.

Anyway, lots of people are talking about the MySQL acquisition. I've
heard every possible opinion, but it seems like lots of them are
worrying about something along the lines of Sun pushing a
Solaris/Apache/MySQL/Java stack on SPARC hardware. Now, I've been
watching Sun \*very\* closely for the past year or so. And I've been
following [Jonathan
Schwartz](http://www.sun.com/aboutsun/executives/schwartz/bio.jsp)
pretty closely too, especially [his blog post about the MySQL
acquisition](http://blogs.sun.com/jonathan/entry/in_a_vortex).

I can't say anything as a Sun employee (I don't have anything more to
say than anyone else who follows the news) but, personally, I think a
lot of people who are worried are just missing the point. Sun used to be
a closed, proprietary company pushing Solaris on SPARC. But it seems to
me, lately, Sun is all about options. Java's Free software now. Solaris
[has been opened](http://www.opensolaris.org) as well. I don't get the
feeling that acquiring MySQL is about pushing Solaris instead of Linux,
or that it will cause Sun to ignore
[PostgreSQL](http://www.postgresql.org/) or Oracle/Solaris products.
It's about options. Just look at Sun in the news lately - more and more
Intel-based commodity hardware, Solaris, Linux, or even Windows on Sun
Hardware, Java, OpenSolaris...

I very much get the feeling that Sun/MySQL is not about Sun trying to
force LAMP out of the marketplace or, as some have conjectured, to turn
MySQL into a mostly proprietary product with minimal free version. It
seems to be about options. About diversity. Whatever you want, Sun can
help. Everything from million-dollar Enterprise servers running [Trusted
Solaris](http://www.sun.com/software/solaris/trustedsolaris/) and giant
Oracle databases to Intel-based 1U or 2U LAMP servers - or even, now,
LAMP servers on non-Sun hardware. (Though why anyone with the money to
do so wouldn't buy Sun hardware, I have no idea).

Stay tuned for more.
