Title: On Ethics and Equality in Hiring, or Requiring Open Source Contributions
Date: 2013-11-16 12:39
Author: admin
Category: Ideas and Rants
Tags: equality, experience, hiring, interviewing, open source
Slug: on-ethics-and-equality-in-hiring-or-requiring-open-source-contributions
Status: draft

http://ebb.org/bkuhn/blog/2013/11/13/unpaid-tradeoff.html  
https://twitter.com/jennschiffer/status/401032453923409920  
https://twitter.com/ashedryden/status/401043925109985281  
https://twitter.com/ashedryden/status/401056482369605632  
https://medium.com/tech-culture-briefs/3570e446ec3c  

http://david.heinemeierhansson.com/2013/the-perils-of-mixing-open-source-and-money.html  
http://geekfeminism.wikia.com/wiki/FLOSS  
https://medium.com/about-work/f6ccd5a6c197  
http://www.garann.com/dev/2012/you-keep-using-that-word/  

http://ashedryden.com/blog/the-ethics-of-unpaid-labor-and-the-oss-community

**This post has no technical content whatsoever.** It's just my addition
to the recent debate about equality in tech hiring, specifically
requiring or preferring candidates who are active open source
contributors.

**Disclaimer**: This is a hot topic. It's fraught with controversy,
strong opinions, and hurt feelings. I don't claim to have *the*
solution, or even *a* solution. These are my personal thoughts and
opinions; they're probably not even fully formed opinions, just what I
happen to be thinking of at the moment. If I sound like a complete ass,
hopefully it was just because I either wasn't articulating myself well,
or was articulating an incomplete thought. I'm certainly open to
counterpoints.

I'm 27 years old. I've been working in tech since I was 19, and a
non-paid user and contributor long before that. I make no claims that
I'm anything other than a lucky, middle-class, white, straight, married
male. So yeah, apparently I'm in the (unfortunately the case) majority
of F/OSS contributors, and probably the
least-likely-to-be-discriminated-against group. I've hired about a dozen
people in my short career, and interviewed many times that number. I've
worked at companies that fall on both sides of this debate, I've
interviewed people and been interviewed for positions that fall on both
sides. I personally believe that the hiring process should be as
objective as possible. I understand the benefits of different
viewpoints, life experiences and diversity. But personally, when hiring
*high-level* technical people, I tend to see qualifications and
experience. I couldn't care less what someone's race, religion, gender
or sexual orientation is - I want to hire the best person for the job.

Note my qualifier: *high-level* technical people. I believe there's an
implicit difference between hiring for an entry-level position versus
hiring a senior or tech lead position. Also, politically correct or not,
there are entry-level companies and high-level companies (and a range in
between). Their hiring practices need to be different, and I think this
is one of the key points lost in the current debates. In my view, it's
fine for companies like Netflix, Google, Etsy, etc. to require open
source contributions if they want. They're at the top of the game.
They're doing the coolest things, and I expect them to hire the absolute
best engineers and programmers possible, period. People who eat, sleep,
and breathe development or ops. Entry-level positions are a different
story. But for mid- to senior-level positions, and for those companies
that are extremely successful, great at what they do, and extremely
selective in hiring - yes, I expect them to hire the best of the best,
and look for people who go far beyond the minimum.

Before I get further off on my rant, let me make a few opinions of mine
clear:

1.  We, as an industry and community, need to take a serious stance on
    harassment and discrimination. It simply is not acceptable, period.
    Those who know me, know that I have no shortage of opinions and no
    fear of asserting myself. I speak up when someone is being
    mistreated, or try my best to. The solution to getting women and
    minorities more involved in technology, and F/OSS specifically, is
    *not* lowering the barrier to entry. It's eliminating the harassment
    and discrimination. It's taking a firm stance that, no matter how
    many lines of code you might contribute, no matter how genius your
    ideas are, if you cannot respect other human beings you are not
    welcome. I know it's asking for a lot, and a bit idealistic, but
    it's how I feel. In an ideal world, we'd all be judged on the
    quality of our work alone, and everything would be just.
2.  There's a giant difference between hiring an entry-level position
    and a mid- to senior-level one.
3.  I have never *required* F/OSS contributions from someone I
    interviewed. I have, however, used them to judge a candidate's
    passion. My last interview question is always whether there are any
    other things the candidate would like us to look at - online
    profiles, blogs, code, StackOverflow or ServerFault, etc. This isn't
    something that's a yes/no, pass/fail grade for the candidate; it's
    part of an equation. It's one factor to try and determine how
    passionate someone is. It's caused me to reconsider - and
    occasionally hire - people who otherwise did poorly in a panel
    interview, but pointed me to some online source that demonstrated
    their passion and knowledge. And, yes, it's reflected poorly on some
    people, but only when I was already concerned that they didn't
    exhibit a passion for their work.

From experiences at a number of employers, I feel like one of the
biggest problems with our industry - especially in
operations/engineering and system administration - are the "nine to
five'ers". The people who consider themselves good at their jobs, have
often been around for a while, but have no passion or interest. It's
just a job to them, nine to five. They're the people who won't work late
to fix something unless it's demanded, who don't keep up on new
technology or learn new skills unless the boss sends them to training,
and usually people who don't contribute back to either the community
(F/OSS) or the workplace (mentoring). To be clear, I'm talking about the
people who *could* do this, but *choose* not to. I was lucky enough to
have my first paid sysadmin gig at a university, working in a small,
tight-knit group of talented people. We were all friends. About half the
team was married, most of them with children. It was simply understood
that family (regardless of marital status, sexual orientation, or
anything else) came first. If you had family obligations, the
expectations were different, and it was understood that your "after
9-to-5" would have to wait. For the student workers, if you needed to
work another job, that was taken into account and expectations were
adjusted. So long as the passion was still there.

So, to expand on this a bit, yes, I ask candidates about their F/OSS
contributions. I also ask them if they write (books, blogs, articles,
whatever), what language or tool they learned the most recently, an
interesting project they worked on recently, technical challenges
they've overcome, how they learn new things, and plenty of other things.
I weigh all of these. I'm not looking for a specific one, or a specific
combination. I'm looking for an indication of passion. **Perhaps most
importantly**, I *have* had interviews with quite a few young,
junior-level people saved by their F/OSS contributions. Specifically
requiring contributions is bad, sure. But ignoring them, or not giving
them sufficient weight when present (i.e., they add points but don't
take them away) is discriminating against people who are brilliant and
skilled, but haven't been able to find a paid job that lets them
flourish.

Having said all that, I do feel a desire (though I've never acted on it)
to discount anyone with "sufficient" (let's say 4+ years) work
experience who's never contributed anything to an open source project.
I'm not just talking about code contributions; if you've been working as
a developer, engineer, or sysadmin for a few years and have never
contributed a patch, or filed a bug, or fixed some docs, or answered (or
even asked) a question on a mailing list or forum... you're not going to
be able to work with me. I don't mean that to be discriminatory;
everywhere I've worked has run mostly open source software, and has
relied mainly on community support. I need people who can do that. I
also prefer, if not require, people who try to contribute something
back. It doesn't have to be hours and hours of coding. But if I can't
find a shred of evidence on the Internet that you ever posted to a
mailing list saying "hey I figured that out", or opened a bug report...
I don't see an excuse for that.

A few other random points, which I know aren't statistically relevant

1.  Can someone please explain to me how it isn't racist to say that PoC
    (people of color) "have less free time"? Is this statement because
    all people of color are less financially secure, or because they
    all... have more obligations than similar caucasians?
2.  I know plenty of people who fought hard to prove themselves while
    making 50% less than their colleagues... and many of them were the
    same race, gender, religion, sexual orientation, and age as their
    overpaid colleagues. In my (limited) experience, this mostly has to
    do with self-confidence and negotiating skills.

Maybe I'm just missing the implication of "candidates must have a Github
profile." This entire discussion seems to be centered around the massive
amounts of time it takes to "contribute" to an open source project, and
the harassment and dismissal of "marginalized" groups. Can anyone who's
worked in tech for a a few years or more honestly tell me they've never
found a one-line bug, documentation error or omission, etc. in a
project? And that in those 3+ years they've never had the time (lunch
break?) to create a Github account, fork the repo, and commit a one-line
fix?
