Title: Stallman and Free Software
Date: 2007-12-21 00:28
Author: admin
Category: Ideas and Rants
Tags: stallman RMS GPL software proprietary free GNU
Slug: stallman-and-free-software

I've long been a fan of Free Software - both the technical aspects and
the moral implications. As such, I've long been
<span style="font-size:100%;">some</span>what of a fan of
[RMS](http://www.stallman.org), and have followed his public persona.
I've had the experience of <span style="font-size:100%;">exchanging
short emails with him, and was lucky enough to attend a speech of his,
entitled "</span>[<span style="font-size:100%;">Copyright vs. Community
in the Age of Computer
Networks</span>](http://www.fsf.org/events/rmsspeechrutgers/view)<span style="font-size:100%;">",
here at Rutgers.

I'm a big fan of most of RMS's thoughts. I do, however, think of him as
a religious zealot. While his teachings may be pure and closest to "the
right way", I find them a bit to pure for the lay-people; perhaps
they're more suited to the priestly class. Reading an
[interview](http://itmanagement.earthweb.com/cnews/article.php/3717476)
with RMS today, I came by an interesting response ([the first answer on
the second
page](http://itmanagement.earthweb.com/cnews/article.php/12035_3717476_2))
dealing with the use of proprietary software and drivers. I'll be the
first to say that I'm a big fan of GPL, including GPLv3 - granted most
of the "software" I write is shorter than the GPL itself.

However, I have a bit of an issue with RMS's stance. In my view, freedom
is the right of the masses. The GPL speaks at length as to the freedoms
granted to a user of software. However, what of the responsibilities of
the developers? Compromise is part of life. Very few of us have the
privilege of being able to live an idealistic life free of compromise.
So, in my opinion, one of the most important aspect of free software is
the <span style="font-weight: bold;">right of users to be exposed to
Free software</span>. This entails not only producing truly (purely)
Free software, but also the responsibility of us, the developers,
administrators, consultants, and manufacturers, to raise the world's
awareness of Free software. Most importantly, this must be done with the
long-term, "big picture" view in mind.

If I hadn't acquiesced to using proprietary video drivers, I never would
have gotten Linux running on my laptop. Unfortunately, I routinely have
the need to view multimedia files which are encoded with proprietary
codecs. This isn't a choice of mine - if I had an option of getting
files which only use Free technology, I would. But unfortunately, the
only other logical option is to run a separate system, running Windows
or Mac OS, and transcode everything. But I have an issue doing that. So,
I do the best that I can.

In the world view, most people aren't programmers. They aren't going to
actively seek out Free software, since they don't receive most of the
important benefits of it. Therefore, we as developers must make a
concerted effort to raise the awareness level of run-of-the-mill
end-users when it comes to Free software. Most importantly, for us, this
means actively working to create fully functional replacements for
proprietary software. However, the inherent problem is that most
end-users don't care whether they can see the source code of a program,
whether they can modify it, or whether it's Free. What they care about
is whether it works or not. If the average person buys a computer with a
DVD player, and wants to watch DVDs on it, they'll use whatever software
they need to do that. If Linux doesn't do it, they'll most likely use
Windows or Mac.

The bottom line is that the average end-user doesn't care about morals
or Freedom or getting source code. Because they haven't been shown the
advantages of that. For the average user to care about software Freedom,
they must be introduced to it. Most importantly, they must be introduced
to the \*power\* of Free software, not its' limitations. Ubuntu is a
prime example of this - it's easy, and does a \*lot\* out of the box.

My main point is the compromise is a good thing, with long-term
objectives in sight. In order for Linux, or any other Free operating
system, to gain significant share of the desktop market, it must WORK.
It has to do everything that end-users expect from a new computer
system, and do it without pain - out of the box. Limiting the software
options of an end-user to those which are religiously pure will limit
acceptance of that software to those who already share the ideals of
Free software. Provide a \*mostly\* Free alternative (i.e. free where
ever it is at all possible) which is functionally identical (or
superior) to the common proprietary alternatives, and users will adopt.
The more users that adopt, the more they will become aware of the
concepts behind Free software. More importantly, each and every user
that adopts will increase support for Free software, increase
development capabilities, and decrease reliance on proprietary
components.

This is an issue of critical mass, of momentum. At the moment, we are
forced to make compromises by installing proprietary drivers on our
otherwise Free GNU/Linux systems. As can already be seen through Dell,
ATI, and other major vendors, when the installed user base grows, the
reliance on proprietary software WILL shrink. As more people adopt Free
operating systems, vendors will clearly see this trend, and will respond
with Free drivers and Free alternatives to other proprietary software.

My cry to the Free software world is, therefore, that trading some of
our religious purity for a larger installed user base, and greater
public awareness, is ultimately in the interest of the greater good of
Free software.  
</span>
