Title: Problems with TheAntennaFarm.com
Date: 2009-07-14 00:33
Author: admin
Category: Miscellaneous
Tags: antennafarm, communications, EMS, radio
Slug: problems-with-theantennafarmcom

When I did the [communications upgrades to my
truck](/2009/07/update-on-my-f-250-icom-mobile-antennas-strobes/),
I was originally going to order the antennas and mounts from
[Tessco](http://www.tessco.com/), but I found that [The Antenna
Farm](http://www.theantennafarm.com) in Montana had the best price on
the IC-F5061, and also carried the antennas and mounts. I must first say
that there was a notice on the Antenna Farm web site that they had moved
to a new location a few days before I placed my order. I waited to place
my order until the web site stated that things were shipping normally.

When I placed my order, I added in the "notes" field that I would like
tracking numbers sent to me as soon as they were available, as I had
requested UPS shipping. I received an initial order confirmation. After
waiting a few days, I had received neither a confirmation that my card
was charged nor a tracking number. The order status on their web site
was still listed as "processing". I called back four days after placing
my order, and it took five calls over two days to get anything other
than an answering machine. When I finally got through to John (the owner
and, as far as I can tell, sole employee), the voice quality of their
phone line was so poor I could hardly communicate. I got enough of his
end of the conversation to understand that I should email him, which I
did (for the second or third time). In the email, I stated that I was
having the equipment installed, so I really needed to know when it would
arrive in order to schedule an installation.

I placed the order early on a Monday morning. After numerous attempts to
make contact, and no change in the "processing" status on the web site,
I finally got an email back on Thursday afternoon stating that some of
the antenna mounts were out of stock, and part of the order would be
drop shipped from the distributor, and should be there the next day.
Still no mention of a tracking number, which I had requested numerous
times. I've done quite a bit of selling on Ebay, and know how easy it is
to provide a customer with this information. He also stated that the
high frequency antenna mount for the WiFI antenna was out of stock at
the distributor as well, so he had them make up a more expensive one at
no extra cost.

The drop ship box arrived the next day, Friday. It contained the two
antennas (I ordered the WiFi antenna directly from L-Com) and two
antenna mounts - \*one\* of the Antenex MB8X's, and the high frequency
mount for the WiFi antenna. The WiFi NMO mount was *definitelty* not the
one I ordered. I know John incurred extra cost in having them custom add
a connector, but it didn't look like any NMO mount I had ever seen (it
appeared to accept a pin in the center, as opposed to having a flat disc
to make contact).

The next week, on Tuesday, the Icom radio arrived. It was as ordered,
but the second Antenex MB8X was nowhere to be found. I did finally
receive a tracking number about 24 hours prior to delivery.

Two weeks after I placed my order (with three day UPS shipping),
[Ken](http://kensautoelectric.com/) managed to fit me in early in the
morning. I told him about the missing third antenna mount, and he agreed
to use one from his stock. Much to my dismay, when he dropped off the
truck, I learned that \*neither\* of the antenna mounts that arrived
were true NMO mounts, and thus they were both useless.

Overall, I'm horribly disappointed with The Antenna Farm. The lack of
communication is appalling, regardless of whether they're having
telephone problems or not (and I find it hard to believe that this guy
doesn't have a cell phone, or can't setup something VoIP-based). The
online feedback on order status is nonexistent, and I might as well have
had it shipped USPS, because I only got one tracking number and that was
a mere day before delivery. One of three antenna mounts was never
received (though John did refund me the cost) and the other two were not
as specified. He clearly has no idea how to deal with someone who
actually has a timeframe - perhaps normal for someone who does most of
his business with hams and not public safety (I guess that's my fault
for choosing a bad vendor). When he found out that there would be delays
in fulfilling my order, John should have contacted me and asked me how I
wanted to proceed. The bulk of my order was drop shipped from Tessco,
who I've done business with before and would have been more than happy
to order direct from.

The programming kit for the F5061 that I ordered from The Antenna Farm,
which was listed as "you buy the cable, we throw in the software",
arrived as a loose cable in the radio box and a home-burned CD, without
even any writing on it to say what it was, with a simple zip file of the
installer. I don't know what Icom's licensing agreement is, but I doubt
they'd be happy about this, as the software isn't available on their web
site.

To top it all off, I was told by my installer that he stopped buying
from The Antenna Farm a few years ago due to endless problems.
