Title: Links for 2008-02-23
Date: 2008-02-25 11:20
Author: admin
Category: Miscellaneous
Tags: apple, bitlocker, cellphone, EU, firefox, gsm, microsoft, ooxml, pakistan, riaa, virtualization, wikileaks, windows, youtube
Slug: links-for-2008-02-23

Some links for today:

[Microsoft's new promised on interoperability, open standards. etc.][] -
somewhat ironic given the Office Open XML debacle on "standards". [And
Red Hat's worries about it][]. (Ars Technica)

[Groklaw's lengthy analysis of the promises][].

[Pakistan removed from the Internet, causes global YouTube outage][].

[A Guardian article on the WikiLeaks debacle][] - perhaps the biggest
affront to the First Amendment this year.

An[InformationWeek article about some guys from BlackHat D.C. who said
that they will be able to crack GSM encryption in under 30 minutes with
$1,000 of technology or 30 seconds with $100,000][] (FPGAs - Maybe a
cluster of PS3's?)

[A Princeton Unviersity blog about cold boots possibly able to crack the
Windows BitLocker system][].

[Yay! Firefox has hit its' 500 Millionth download!!!][] And there was
much rejoicing...

[An ArsTechnica article on Internet Explorer, what should be done to fix
it, and how there can still be a non-standards-compliant browser][].

[Jeremy's Blog][] - the mind behind [LinuxQuestions.org][] - [provides a
recap of the 2007 LQ Members' Choice awards][]. Some interesting winners
were VirtualBox for virtualization package, Debain for server distro,
Knoppix for Live Distro, Eclipse for IDE/Web Development Environment,
Python for language of the year, and - much to my chagrin - vi/vim for
editor.

A [LinuxJournal article on What's Next for Open Source and Public
Meida][].

[LinuxInsider - EU taking Microsoft's promises with a grain of salt][],
noting that MS has made "at least four similar statements" in the past.

[Chris Siebenmann][] - [Where the risk is with virtualization (and
iSCSI)][] and [Wireless, machine rooms, and the Asus eeePC][].

[IBM DeveloperWorks - OOXML: What's the big deal?][] - outlining the
technical objections to OOXML as a standard. Linked from a
[rootprompt.org][] article mentioning that "OOXML is essentially a
complete replication of every chunk of data that a Microsoft Office
application might possibly save in a file".

Slashdot YRO - [a guy who got hist stock photos stolen, entered into a
long legal battle, and won][].

Microsoft's [Windows Vista Capable lawsuit granted class-action
status][].

A [Washington Post article on Hans Reiser's Geek Defense strategy][].

A [Slashdot post linking to news that Apple sent a cease-and-decist
order to the Hymn Project][], which produces software to remove DRM from
iTunes songs. Apple had their ISP remove all download links. (I guess
the only solution is for us all to buy bandwidth right from a NSP...)

[Yahoo's shareholders are suing it for not gobbling up the Microsoft
deal][].

[Comcast getting sued AGAIN for P2P filtering][].

[A leaked RIAA training video for prosecutors][], going so far as to say
that IP piracy can lead to arrests for drugs, weapons, or terrorism. It
also includes instructions on how to get a RIAA investigator certified
as a court expert.

A [New York Times article on - gasp - women using the Internet][].
Linked from [Tom Limoncelli's blog][].

  [Microsoft's new promised on interoperability, open standards. etc.]: http://arstechnica.com/news.ars/post/20080221-microsoft-launches-new-open-standards-interoperability-push.html
  [And Red Hat's worries about it]: http://arstechnica.com/journals/linux.ars/2008/02/21/red-hat-not-impressed-with-microsofts-interoperability-plans
  [Groklaw's lengthy analysis of the promises]: http://www.groklaw.net/article.php?story=20080221184924826
  [Pakistan removed from the Internet, causes global YouTube outage]: http://blogs.zdnet.com/threatchaos/
  [A Guardian article on the WikiLeaks debacle]: http://www.guardian.co.uk/theguardian/2008/feb/23/internet.usa
  [InformationWeek article about some guys from BlackHat D.C. who said
  that they will be able to crack GSM encryption in under 30 minutes
  with $1,000 of technology or 30 seconds with $100,000]: http://www.informationweek.com/story/showArticle.jhtml?articleID=206800800&cid=RSSfeed_IWK_All
  [A Princeton Unviersity blog about cold boots possibly able to crack
  the Windows BitLocker system]: http://citp.princeton.edu/memory/
  [Yay! Firefox has hit its' 500 Millionth download!!!]: http://blog.mozilla.com/blog/2008/02/21/500-million-firefox-downloads-complete-500-million-grains-in-progress/
  [An ArsTechnica article on Internet Explorer, what should be done to
  fix it, and how there can still be a non-standards-compliant browser]:
    http://arstechnica.com/news.ars/post/20080219-opera-browser-market-isnt-functioning-thanks-to-microsoft.html
  [Jeremy's Blog]: http://jeremy.linuxquestions.org/
  [LinuxQuestions.org]: http://www.linuxquestions.org/
  [provides a recap of the 2007 LQ Members' Choice awards]: http://jeremy.linuxquestions.org/2008/02/21/2007-linuxquestionsorg-members-choice-award-winners/
  [LinuxJournal article on What's Next for Open Source and Public
  Meida]: http://www.linuxjournal.com/content/whats-next-open-source-and-public-media
  [LinuxInsider - EU taking Microsoft's promises with a grain of salt]: http://www.linuxinsider.com/rsstory/61803.html
  [Chris Siebenmann]: http://utcc.utoronto.ca/~cks/space/blog/
  [Where the risk is with virtualization (and iSCSI)]: http://utcc.utoronto.ca/~cks/space/blog/tech/SharingRisk
  [Wireless, machine rooms, and the Asus eeePC]: http://utcc.utoronto.ca/~cks/space/blog/sysadmin/WirelessMachineRoom
  [IBM DeveloperWorks - OOXML: What's the big deal?]: http://www.ibm.com/developerworks/library/x-ooxmlstandard.html?ca=dgr-lnxw06OOXMLBigDeal&S_TACT=105AGX59&S_CMP=GR
  [rootprompt.org]: http://rootprompt.org/article.php3?article=11548
  [a guy who got hist stock photos stolen, entered into a long legal
  battle, and won]: http://yro.slashdot.org/article.pl?sid=08/02/25/0159250&from=rss
  [Windows Vista Capable lawsuit granted class-action status]: http://seattlepi.nwsource.com/business/352442_vista23.html
  [Washington Post article on Hans Reiser's Geek Defense strategy]: http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2008/02/23/AR2008022300693.html
  [Slashdot post linking to news that Apple sent a cease-and-decist
  order to the Hymn Project]: http://apple.slashdot.org/article.pl?sid=08/02/23/1915254&from=rss
  [Yahoo's shareholders are suing it for not gobbling up the Microsoft
  deal]: http://news.yahoo.com/s/ap/20080222/ap_on_hi_te/yahoo_shareholder_lawsuit
  [Comcast getting sued AGAIN for P2P filtering]: http://arstechnica.com/news.ars/post/20080220-disgruntled-customer-sues-comcast-over-p2p-throttling.html
  [A leaked RIAA training video for prosecutors]: http://blog.wired.com/music/2008/02/riaa-training-v.html
  [New York Times article on - gasp - women using the Internet]: http://www.nytimes.com/2008/02/21/fashion/21webgirls.html?_r=2&oref=slogin&oref=slogin
  [Tom Limoncelli's blog]: http://yesthattom.livejournal.com
