Title: Slashdot - A Public Funded "Microsoft Shop?"
Date: 2010-03-04 21:27
Author: admin
Category: Ideas and Rants
Tags: microsoft
Slug: slashdot-a-public-funded-microsoft-shop

I just came by an interesting post on Slashdot, [A Public Funded
"Microsoft
Shop?"](http://science.slashdot.org/story/10/03/04/1416226/A-Public-Funded-Microsoft-Shop).
The author works at a publicly-funded hospital and comments that he
received an email from management stating:

> Information Services is strategically a Microsoft shop and when
> talking to staff / customers we are to support this strategy. I no
> longer want to see comments promoting other Operating Systems.

Initially, my anti-Microsoft buzzer went off. But the post also stated
that they were ordered to remove Firefox from any computers not
specifically authorized by management. As usual, the Slashdot
conversation degenerated into a proprietary vs open debate.

As I have to comment on the Microsoft issue, I have two remarks. First,
software (an OS, a browser, a text editor, whatever) is a tool. A tool
should be chosen base on whether it's the right one for the job, not
just because of who makes it. I'd like to see a major construction
company state decree that they'll only buy Stanley and DeWalt tools.
What will their answer be when the plumbers realize that neither of
those companies make a simple pipe wrench? "Use a hammer"? Secondly, as
is evidenced by history, popularity is a relatively poor indicator of
quality, and always ephemeral. Wigs were popular for wealthy men. The
telegraph was popular, and many thought the telephone would never catch
on. The [fluoroscope](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fluoroscope) was
popular for shoe fitting. Racism was popular. Smoking was popular. BASIC
was the greatest programming language ever. Decisions based solely on
popularity are rarely good in the long term.

But, alas, enough of the Microsoft-bashing. What struck me more was the
prohibition against Firefox, and what it means for technically-apt
employees. Times are changing, and many of the people now entering the
workforce are well-versed with technology. The days when employers could
expect to give their new hires initial computer training are long gone.
And, while many may not see it, the days when every new employee could
be expected to know only a common "popular" system (Windows, MS Office,
MSIE) are gone, too. Many people who work at universities, such as
myself, are seeing browser stats that report less than 40% Windows, with
an explosion of Mac-based users and (perhaps thanks to Android,
Netbooks, and Ubuntu) a strong growth in the Linux user base.

The Rutgers University student computing labs have both IE and Firefox
installed on the Windows machines (and we also have a \*very\* large
number of Mac or dual-boot Windows/Mac clients) and a walk through a
busy lab will reveal a strong majority of users on Firefox. Many
cash-strapped students, even the ones I knew a few years ago, were using
OpenOffice rather than pay for MS Office.

A similar trend can be seen in the new hires and young professionals who
simply won't settle for a corporate cell phone - Windows Mobile, iPhone
or Android, they already have a phone and OS that they like, and
consider a part of their lives.

There's a very simple point here - for an increasing number of people,
especially those now entering the workforce, technology is an
inextricable part of their lives. It's part of their sense of self, of
expression, of free choice. Telling many people what browser they can
and can't use is like telling a new hire a decade or two ago how their
handwriting had to look or what size note pad they could use. Asking
many of my (even non-techie) friends to switch cell phone OS would be
like telling them what color clothes or tie they have to wear to work.
Telling the average 20-year-old that they can't use instant messenger or
facebook at work is like telling the average 40-year-old they can't
receive a phone call from their spouse or child. Most especially, with
the pervasiveness of Internet access, connected devices and choice in
browsers and other software, these choices are being seen as a part of
life, a part of technology.

Lastly, and perhaps most importantly to many businesses, the role of IT
as seen by the end-user is changing, and the role of technology in
productivity is changing. For many young college-educated workers, IT is
more of a procurement avenue than a support system. Many would happily
install the software application of their choice (whether it is Firefox,
OpenOffice, or something else) on their own, without the worry of a
formal help desk. There's also the issue of productivity -
technologically proficient new hires are already used to a software
environment. They've been able to choose their own applications, OS,
browser, etc. Forcing them to switch - especially if they have been
using an application for years and still do at home - will only result
in lower productivity and some amount of frustration. I know that I, for
one, have almost laughed when people advertising for Linux admin jobs
said I'd be using the same Windows desktop environment as all of the
users.
