Title: The Newest Generation of Hackers
Date: 2010-03-02 21:45
Author: admin
Category: Miscellaneous
Tags: free, hacker, linux, open source, svn
Slug: the-newest-generation-of-hackers

*Note for non-technical readers (not that I expect there to be many).
The title of this post includes the word "hacker". If you think that has
anything to do with illegal acts or unethical behavior, you've fallen
victim to what happens when the mainstream media latches on to a term
they don't understand. The [definition][] of this word is far from
negative. Within the geek community, the title "hacker" is the utmost
compliment - something like Grand Master in the martial arts, or perhaps
whatever title is given to an eminent artist. It both describes someone
who is an expert in their field. Or, more generally, someone who enjoys
seeking knowledge simply for the sake of knowledge - figuring out how
things work, how to make them, and how to make them better. If you're
looking for a term that describes a criminal, "attacker", "malicious
user" or "computer criminal" work fine. While I wouldn't by any extent
consider myself a hacker in the super-genius-wizard sense of the term, I
do definitely subscribe to the hacker ethic - the burning need to figure
out how things work and make them better.*

Thanks to the snow at the end of last week, and a long weekend, I
actually got to do some reading that didn't involve man pages or books
strictly about software. I finally finished [The Daemon, the Gnu, and
the Penguin][] by Peter H. Salus, a wonderful book (with a great
foreword by maddog Hall). I also *finally* got a chance to start reading
[The Cathedral & the Bazaar: Musings on Linux and Open Source by an
Accidental Revolutionary][] by Eric S. Raymond (ESR). I'm only up to
page 50 or so, but it's an equally good book, and I've been looking
forward to reading it for years.

I've always been very interested in history (heck, I have a minor in
it), and specifically the history of my other interests. When
photography took up most of my time, I read every photo history book I
could get my hands on (including many primary sources on now-archaic
techniques). In the past few years, I've been amassing books on
computing history (specifically ARPANET/the Internet and Unix/Linux/Free
software) at a near-alarming rate.

Through all of my reading, two main things have struck me: the utterly
amazing feats accomplished by previous generations, and how my own
generation takes them for granted. I was born in 1987 which, I feel,
makes me part of a very small group who were lucky enough to grow up
during the real rise of the Internet. I remember playing simple games on
my grandmother's (business) 386DX long before I could read most of the
words on the screen. But I also remember my father dialing in to an ISP
(I honestly don't remember which one) on a 9600 baud serial modem, and
how unique that was at the time (at least among kids my age). By 13 or
so, I had a 10BaseT network in my house, sharing a 56k dial-up
connection between two computers. I feel that I'm part of a short
historical period of kids who "grew up" with computers, used them in
middle school, are perfectly at home with them, but still remember
dial-up, the launch of Windows 98, and ordering Linux on CDs because you
just couldn't get it any other way (too young to have access to the
resources of a college, only dial-up).

Anyway, on to my point...

As I read about those who stepped before me (and my generation), those
who thought up such amazing ideas as Unix, the Internet, networking and
most of the software and protocols we have today, I realize how big
their shoes are, and how difficult it will be for the next generation to
fill them. Sure, we have Facebook, RSS feeds, Web 2.0 and smartphones,
but will we be able to innovate on the level that those who came before
us did? And then it strikes me how much we young aspiring hackers take
for granted. How many aspects of technology today would be seemed
impossible 20 years ago, but we use without a second thought.

The last generation of hackers and programmers were raised on software
distribution tapes. Their idea of "open" was formed by what they were
used to - a Cathedral development model, with regular releases
(production, perhaps beta, perhaps even less) and accompanying source
code. However, in the pre-Internet days, they were still bound by
physical media. They were still bound to the Cathedral development
model, to a small and tight-knit group of sages determining when the
world was ready to see the fruits of their labor.

The current generation - those of us just out of college or grad school,
or even younger - think of Linux as the quintessential open source
project. For those of us who came into computing when Linux was already
around (I first ran Linux in 2001 when, at 14, I bought the
newly-released CD set of SuSE 7.3), Linux sets the bar. It's what we
were raised on (at least in terms of open source). Fixed releases - even
with source - seem antiquated, pre-Internet, our fathers' open source.
To us, open means nightly builds, world-readable ticket/bug trackers,
anonymous Git or SVN access, and RSS feeds of every commit. It means
being able to see every line of code at every moment in time, even if
we've never e-mailed one of the developers.

Even just a few years ago, the word "open" was used by vendors to mean
almost anything - everything from software based on Linux, to software
that included source (regardless of the license) to software that just
used (patent encumbered) documented protocols or formats. For the next
generation, even the generation entering the workforce now, open means
much more. It means transparency in development, in code, in
documentation, in management.

Many times, I've found an "open" software project, and searched their
web site endlessly looking for links to Git or SVN or CVS. Or looked
endlessly for the (internal) bug tracker. Every time, I had to remind
myself that the world, even many of the open source projects, are still
far behind my expectations. Even Google's Android Open Source project
only has code merged in periodically from the production (closed) tree,
and maintains a separate bug tracker. Far from my expectation of just
having some parts of the tree unavailable on the Internet, and some
classes of bugs filtered out from public view.

Nobody - not even Microsoft - can deny that the world is moving more and
more to open source. It's already the de-facto standard on the Internet,
but it's moving more and more to the desktop every day. And, as this
happens, the expectations of what open means (increasingly more
transparent than just "open") are also increasing. The software world -
both proprietary and open source - will have to keep up. And, hopefully,
as the generation raised on the Internet begins to fill the ranks of
geeks in the workforce, we'll see more and more open source usage.

As a side note, I'd be very interested to see how open source use
compares to demographics. I know that Linux use (on student-owned
computers) at most colleges is way above the global average, and the
same goes for Firefox.

  [definition]: http://www.jasonantman.com/jargon/entry.php?id=hacker
  [The Daemon, the Gnu, and the Penguin]: http://www.amazon.com/Daemon-Gnu-Penguin-Peter-Salus/dp/097903423X
  [The Cathedral & the Bazaar: Musings on Linux and Open Source by an
  Accidental Revolutionary]: http://www.amazon.com/Cathedral-Bazaar-Musings-Accidental-Revolutionary/dp/0596001088/
