Title: About
Date: 2008-12-17 09:17
Author: admin
Slug: about

I was born in February, 1987 in New Jersey, USA, and graduated from
Rutgers University in New Brunswick, NJ, USA in October, 2009 with a
bachelor's degree Information Technology and Informatics. In 2011 my
now-wife and I moved from New Jersey to Georgia, USA, and we currently
reside in Conyers, GA with a wonderful dog and four cats. I'm a geek,
and proud of it. I'm currently employed at [Cox Media Group][]'s
digital/technology department in Atlanta, GA; we develop and run an
in-house CMS written in Python (quite possibly the biggest [Django][]
app out there) that hosts the web sites of our 150+ newspaper, TV and
radio properties (and some other associated technologies and systems).
I'm a (linux) systems engineer on the Operations Engineering team,
specializing in monitoring and automation. Before coming to CMG in
October 2012, I worked for a year or so as a linux sysadmin at a
publicly traded company.

Before moving down to Georgia in October 2011, I worked as a Systems
Administrator for Rutgers University's Central Systems and Services
group, mainly doing Linux admin/architecture work and a bit of PHP and
other assorted programming. I also provided engineering and development
support for our group's largest service, RUwireless, the university's
wireless network (at the time it supported \~50,000 users and covered
over large portion of the University's 711 buildings). My big projects
at RU included designing and implementing a comprehensive monitoring,
backup and automation solution for the group's production systems
(Nagios, Bacula, [Puppet][] back in the 0.24.8 days), a ground-up
redesign of the DHCP infrastructure supporting all computer lab
machines, and all dorm and wireless users, and implementation of a
custom Puppet-managed FreeRADIUS authentication and authorization system
for the university-wide wireless network (still in production and
expanding).

I'm a [Free Software][] advocate, and use Free software (aka "open
source") almost exclusively both at work and at home. Linux is my
operating system of choice; at the moment I'm running [Arch Linux][] on
my work-provided MacBook Pro Retina, Fedora (soon to be Arch as well) on
my desktop at home, and CentOS on most servers I control. I've been
Linux exclusively since December 2006, started my life on the OS with
SuSE 7.3 in October, 2001. This site, and all my others, used to be
hosted from a [rack][] of servers in my basement, which was collapsed
down to a *single* VM hosted by [Linode][]. I'm also a bit of a hardware
tinkerer, though since moving to an apartment, that's mainly been of the
[RaspberryPi][] variety, instead of the previous collection of random
rack mount gear and homebrew devices.

In my life in NJ, I spent 7 years volunteering with the [Midland Park
Ambulance Corps][]; I was both a NJ certified Emergency Medical
Technician (active duty March 2005-October 2011) and also handled their
tech needs, including development of a custom electronic Patient Care
Report (ePCR) and crew scheduling solution, and an Asterisk-based system
to receive, log and display analog phone-based dispatch confirmations
from responding crew members.

  [Cox Media Group]: http://www.coxmediagroup.com/
  [Django]: https://www.djangoproject.com/
  [Puppet]: http://reductivelabs.com/products/puppet/
  [Free Software]: http://www.fsf.org/about/what-is-free-software
    "Free Software"
  [Arch Linux]: https://www.archlinux.org/
  [rack]: http://blog.jasonantman.com/GFX/rack_2011-09-27_small.jpg
  [Linode]: http://www.linode.com/?r=5c8ad2931b410b55455aadbcf0a8d86d6f698a91
  [RaspberryPi]: http://www.raspberrypi.org/
  [Midland Park Ambulance Corps]: http://www.midlandparkambulance.com
    "Midland Park Ambulance Corps"
