Title: LinuxJournal - NetBooks
Date: 2008-09-19 13:28
Author: admin
Category: Miscellaneous
Slug: linuxjournal-netbooks

Shawn Powers wrote an interesting article on LJ, [Where Do YOU Send
NetBook Users For Help?][], which speaks about the myriad different
distributions used on NetBooks (like the [eeePC][] and its' brethren),
many of which are significantly different from the usual mainstream
distros.

My comment:

From a vendor's point of view, it probably seems a good idea. However,
there are two major problems that I see in it. Firstly, while there
aren't a gigantic number of people that can give aid with Linux, there
are quite a few - especially in one of the hottest areas (that I've
seen) for the eeePC, colleges and universities. Unless the vendor is
prepared to offer high-quality OS and application tech support, they
should do all they can to make use of whatever Linux support resources
already exist. Ubuntu is becoming increasingly common, so the best move
(in my mind) would be to re-brand Ubuntu, but keep the functionality the
same, therefore making use of (arguably) a relatively large experience
base, by Linux standards. If you're a hardware company, and don't focus
on providing (software) technical support, the smartest thing to do is
to try and maximize the amount of third-party software support that's
available.

Secondly, and perhaps more importantly, we've finally started to reach a
time when Linux is becoming standardized. Most popular distros follow
(more-or-less) the LSB specification, and Gnome and KDE have become the
accepted standards for pretty much all non-geek graphical environments.
It's taken years to reach this point, and the introduction of
mass-market netbooks, many with their own customized distros, is not
helping, nor is it smart on the manufacturers' part.

Perhaps the biggest problem is that the manufacturers themselves just
see Linux as an OS that doesn't cost them anything, without seeing the
big picture. If they truly understood Free software, they'd be working
to improve on existing technology, while retaining the existing code as
a base, rather than struggling to differentiate their offering. If I was
to start selling Linux-based netbooks, I think the solution is quite
simple, just by following the trends in the Linux world: sell a
"business" version that runs RedHat or CentOS, maybe SuSE, and a
"consumer" version that has Ubuntu (which, as far as I've seen, is the
most popular with the non-linux crowd). Rather than trying to build my
own distro and differentiate it from everything else, I'd build on what
little Linux experience the general public has, by using the most common
distros. If the marketing guys want differentiation so badly, that's the
wonder of Free software - just add vendor-specific logos and a custom
theme.

On a personal note, I've had an eeePC 701G Surf since December 2007. The
\*first\* thing I did when I got it was create a 4GB SDHC card with a
full install of my favorite distro, and set it up to boot from the SDHC.
I haven't booted Xandros more than twice. Even the "expert" mode, which
is somewhat like a normal desktop environment, is severely lacking in
common tools, administrative tools, and security (the user separation is
abysmal). I would've been much more happy to see it ship with a good
install of Ubuntu, even locked down with a "simple" desktop for the
default user. Things like sed, awk, grep, and an SSH server should be
instaled on every Linux system. Also, just a theory - set each system to
have a unique, randomly generated root password, and print it on a label
on the bottom of the machine.

  [Where Do YOU Send NetBook Users For Help?]: http://www.linuxjournal.com/content/where-do-you-send-netbook-users-help-0
  [eeePC]: http://eee.asus.com
