Title: Poor PHP
Date: 2007-03-21 16:42
Author: admin
Category: Miscellaneous
Tags: command line, computer science, PHP, programming, web programming
Slug: poor-php

Well, as mentioned below, today I was doing a little research. On the
futility of a Computer Science major. Specifically, on the fact that the
overwhelming odds are that in a career in IT, system administration, or
even web programming, I'll probably never apply 90% of what I learn in
CS courses.

So, I went looking for online certificate programs, knowing that most of
the vendors' programs run $500 or more just for testing. I came by
eCertificates.com. And this brings me to another topic... I clicked on
the "Software Programming" category, and was surprised to see no PHP
test. On a hunch, I looked under "Web Design", and sure enough, there it
was.

I know this is a common misconception, and I know that because it plays
so well with the web, and Apache, PHP has been pigeonholed as a web
language. Maybe I'm just crazy, or maybe it's just because I know PHP
better than anything else. But PHP is *NOT* a web programming language.
It is a programming language that happens to work *very* well with web
applications.

Using `fread()` and `fwrite()` I can slam together a command-line menu-based
PHP script for administration quicker than I could write the def's for a
Python script. I've done it, I have a number of PHP CLI-based scripts
running on my machines. Database access with PHP is a no-brainer. And
one day, when I get around to reading my "ancient" pile of books and
learning NCurses, PHP will be right there with me.

So I guess it is just a fact of the modern web mentality. But PHP has
myriad uses aside from web applications and web content handling. Sure,
my web site is written in it. But one of my backup scripts is, too. And
more importantly, if I'm working with a database that already has a
PHP-based web frontend, PHP seems like the natural choice for a
CLI-based administration backend.
